VB, 09/21/2010

"Core polarization" basis sets for FHI-aims ... and their handling.

*** The species defaults given in this directory are subject to progress, and
    not yet complete. If you discover anything here which is inaccurate or
    outdated, please correct after coordinating with me, and also correct the
    README file. -VB ***

The species defaults given in this directory are intended for use in
calculations that explicitly rely on both the occupied and unoccupied parts of
the ground-state eigenfunctions to describe correlation. Currently, these are:

- MP2
- RPA
- GW

In these cases, a significant correlation contribution arises for the core
(and possibly valence) states near the nucleus which is not captured by the
single core radial function of a ground-state free atom. This correlation
contribution can be large, will be incompletely captured in any multi-atom
structure (overlap of neighboring basis functions), and can thus lead to
sizeable basis set superposition errors for any "correlated method".

The basis sets given here add specific "core correlation" basis functions that
aim to capture the core correlation contribution already for a free atom. They
were created by Mariana Rossi, based on the minimization(!) of MP2 total
energies for symmetric dimers, starting from the normal "tier 2" basis
sets. They are otherwise based on the normal "really_tight" species defaults. 

At present, our experience is as follows:

- For Hydrogen, no additional "core correlation" basis functions are needed
  (or helpful).  

- For the light elements C, N, O:

  * The first radial functions that result are always one s- and one p-type
  radial function, leading to high energy gains. They are labelled as
  "core_sp" in the present directory. These two radial functions already
  alleviate a significant part, but by no means all of the BSSE encountered in
  simple test systems.

  * The next few radial functions that are used are (in varying order) s-, p-,
    d-, d-type, leading to basis sets labelled as "core_spspdd". For C, N, O,
    the two d-type radial functions are hydrogen-like 3d functions with
    effective Z approx. 15 and 30, respectively, but their order of appearance
    differs from element to element; we therefore keep both, for now. In
    addition, the automated basis set construction would also add f-type
    radial functions. However, these functions are not very localized at
    all. Empirically, they do not improve the BSSE in any way, either. They
    are therefore currently not kept active (commented out instead). In
    addition, the automated basis set construction would not any more s
    functions, preferring p-, d-, f-type functiona at any given point. The
    "best" s functions at a given point are therefore added by hand for each
    element. It is important to note that the improvement per basis function
    (not per radial function) is much greated from the single s function than
    from the (multiple) d or f basis functions associated with each radial
    function. 

  * From both core_sp and core_spspdd, the "usual" tier 3 and tier 4 basis
    functions can be added systematically as always. A reduction to tier 1
    only is also possible.

- For best results, total energy _differences_ should be computed with these
  basis functions not directly, but from a difference of atomization
  energies. For the atomization energies, each atom should be treated with an
  individual BSSE correction. At least, this is my impression so far. 

  For atomization energies, it is critical to pay attention to the symmetry
  state (symmetry breaking or not) of the self-consistent electronic structure
  of each free atom, especially O.

- To Do: At present, we have no way of adding any more meaningful radial
  functions. There are a variety of possibilities to go on:

  * Use CISD instead of MP2 as an optimization target. MP2 is not variational,
    and "just minimizing" the MP2 total energy may be a bad strategy. CISD, on
    the other hand, is variational.

  * Christoph Friedrich & Markus Betzinger of the Juelich LAPW group have a
    well-defined way of adding analytically defined radial functions to the
    LAPW basis set that allow to treat the polarizability correctly. This may
    be exactly our problem, and could enable us to solve the problem of core
    polarization functions analytically.

  * More elements. Obviously, C, N, O are not everything. A partial basis set
    for Si is in the works (but not finished); for a heavier element (Cu) we
    ran into numerical problems. May or may not be related to the
    non-variational nature of MP2, but not resolved yet.

